The following steps should get you up and running with Riak on MacOSX 10.5 or 10.6. You can install from source or download a precompiled tarball.


<div class="note"><div class="title">ulimit on OS X</div>OS X gives you a very small limit on open file handles, so even with a backend that uses very few file handles, it's possible to run out.  Run this command before getting started developing on your Mac:

```bash
ulimit -n 1024
```
</div>


h2. From precompiled tarballs

To run Riak from our precompiled tarball, run these commands for the appropriate platform:

h3. 64-bit


```bash
$ curl -O http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.12/riak-0.12.0-osx-x86_64.tar.gz
$ tar xzvf riak-0.12.0-osx-x86_64.tar.gz
```


h3. 32-bit


```bash
$ curl -O http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.11/riak-0.12.0-osx-i386.tar.gz
$ tar xzvf riak-0.12.0-osx-i386.tar.gz
```


After the release is untared you will be able to cd into the riak directory and execute bin/riak start to start the Riak node.

h2. {anchor:homebrew} Homebrew

Installing with Homebrew is easy:


```bash
$ brew install riak
```


Homebrew will install Erlang if you don't have it already.

h2. From source

You must have XCode tools installed from the CD that came with your Mac or from Apple's [[Developer website|http://developer.apple.com]].

Riak requires [[Erlang|http://www.erlang.org/]] R13B04 or later. If you do not have Erlang already installed, see [[Installing Erlang]]. Don't worry, it's easy\!

Next, download and unpack the source distribution.


```bash
$ curl -O http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.12/riak-0.12.0.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf riak-0.12.0.tar.gz
$ make rel
```


If you get errors when building about "incompatible architecture", please verify that you built Erlang with the same architecture as your system (Snow Leopard - 64bit, everything else - 32bit).

Next Steps: [[*Basic Cluster Setup*|Basic Cluster Setup]] will show you how to go from one node to bigger than Google
