The following article discusses standard configurations and port settings to use when thinking about how to secure your Riak Cluster.

There are two classes of access control for Riak:

# other Riak nodes in the ring
# clients making use of the Riak ring

For both access groups, the settings you want are in riak/etc/app.config.  The config directives you care about for client access all end in "_ip" and "_port": web_ip, web_port, pb_ip, and pb_port.  Make note of those and configure your firewall to incoming TCP access to those ports or IP and port combinations.  The exceptions to this is the handoff_ip and handoff_port directives.  Those are for communication between Riak nodes only.

Riak uses the Erlang distribution mechanism for most inter-node communication.  Riak identifies other machines in the ring using Erlang identifiers(<identifier>@<hostname or IP>, i.e. "riak@10.9.8.7").  Erlang resolves these node identifiers to a TCP port on a given machine via the Erlang Port Mapper daemon(epmd) running on each machine in a ring.  epmd listens on TCP port 4369 on the wildcard interface. For inter-node communication, epmd uses ports in the 5001-6024 range by default.

You can configure Riak to tell the Erlang interpreter (and thence epmd) to only use a limited range of ports in riak/etc/app.config.  If you want to restrict the range of ports that Erlang and epmd will use for inter-Erlang node communication to 6000-7999, you can add the following lines to riak/etc/app.config:


```bash
{ kernel, [
            {inet_dist_listen_min, 6000},
            {inet_dist_listen_max, 7999}
          ]},
```


Then just configure your firewall to allow incoming access to TCP ports 6000 to 7999 from whichever network(s) contain your Riak nodes.


h5. Riak nodes in ring need to be able to communicate freely with one another on the following ports:

- epmd's listener: TCP:4369
- handoff_port listener: TCP:8099
- range of ports you configure in app.config


h5. Riak clients need to be able to contact a at least one machine in a Riak ring on the following ports:

- web_port: TCP:8098
- pb_port: TCP:8097

One important note: if you do add the inet_dist_listen_min and inet_dist_listen_max entries to riak/etc/app.config, you need to kill off any running epmd so it it will pick up the new settings.  epmd will continue to run on a given machine even after all Erlang interpreters have exited.