The following steps should get you up and running with Riak Search on Debian or Ubuntu. You can install from our custom .deb package or from source.

h2. Package Install

Riak Search depends on Java for some of its functionality. You can use Sun Java or OpenJDK.

OpenJDK installation:
{code}
sudo apt-get install openjdk-6-jre
{code}

Sun Java installation:
{code}
# enable the non-free apt-get repository on Debian
# enable the Canonical Partner repository on Ubuntu
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jre
{code}

Next, download and install the Riak Search package:
h3. 64-bit

{code}
wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak-search/riak-search-0.13/riak-search_0.13.0-1_amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i riak-search_0.13.0-1_amd64.deb
{code}

h3. 32-bit

{code}
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak-search/riak-search-0.13/riak-search_0.13.0-1_i386.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i riak-search_0.13.0-1_i386.deb
{code}


h2. Source Install

Riak requires [[Erlang|http://www.erlang.org/]] R13B04 or later. If you do not have Erlang already installed, see [[Installing Erlang]].

Building from source also requires the following packages:
* build-essential
* libc6-dev-i386
* ant

You can install these as follows:

{code}
sudo apt-get install build-essential libc6-dev-i386 openjdk-6-jdk ant ant-optional
{code}

{info}
Installing Ant will also install the OpenJDK version of Java. If you prefer, you can install Sun Java JDK first:
{code}
# enable the non-free apt-get repository on Debian
# enable the Canonical Partner repository on Ubuntu
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk
{code}
{info}

Now download and install Riak Search:

{code}
wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak-search/riak-search-0.13/riak_search-0.13.0.tar.gz
tar zxvf riak_search-0.13.0.tar.gz
cd riak_search-0.13.0
make rel
{code}

There should now be a fresh build of Riak Search in the rel/riaksearch directory.