There is a vibrant and fast-growing community forming around Riak. 

Want to get involved with Riak? Here's where you can start:



{toc:MaxLevel=3}
----

h3. Overview

h6. Mailing List
 
The [[Riak Developer Mailing List|http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users_lists.basho.com]] is highly-trafficked and is a great resource for technical discussions, Riak issues and questions, and community events and announcements. 

h6. Bug Tracker

Basho uses Bugzilla for its bug tracker. You can file, track and comment on all your favorite bugs [[here|https://issues.basho.com/]].

h6. Riak on IRC 

The Riak IRC room is a great place for real-time help with your Riak issues and questions.

[[irc://irc.freenode.net/#riak|irc://irc.freenode.net/#riak]]

h6. The Basho Blog

Members of the Basho Team blog frequently on [[The Basho Blog|http://blog.basho.com]]. 

h6. Basho on Twitter

You can follow the [[Basho Team List|http://twitter.com/basho/team]] on Twitter.

h6. Riak on Facebook

We have a Facebook Page. Get involved [[here|http://www.facebook.com/pages/Riak/143599935667217]]. (Note: you better get involved; we need to beat the Mongo page!)

h6. Riak on LinkedIn

There is a Riak Group on LinkedIn. Join it [[here|http://www.linkedin.com/groups?mostPopular=&gid=2913983]]. (Note: you'll need to have a LinkedIn Account/]

h6. Videos

You can watch all the RIak screecasts and other videos that Basho publishes on the [[Basho Vimeo Page|http://vimeo.com/user2820657/videos]].


h6. Meetups

At the moment we have a monthly Riak Meetup in San Francisco. We are working on expanding that (and would [[love to talk to you|https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Contact+Basho]] if you're interested in helping out).

* [[Riak San Francisco Meetup|http://www.meetup.com/San-Francisco-Riak-Meetup/]]

h3. Community Processes

[[Code Submission and Integration]]
[[Contributing to the Riak Wiki]]

h3. Contributors

{excerpt-include:Contributors|nopanel=true}

*[[Read more about our Contributors|Contributors]]*
