h1. HTTP Get Bucket Properties

Reads the bucket properties.

h4. Request

```bash
GET /riak/bucket
```

Optional query parameters:
* @props@ - whether to return the bucket properties (@true@ is the default)
* @keys@ - whether to return the keys stored in the bucket. (@false@ is the default). See also [[HTTP List Keys]].

h4. Response

Normal status codes:
* @200 OK@

Important headers:
* @Content-Type@ - @application/json@

The JSON object in the response will contain up to two entries, @"props"@ and @"keys"@, which are present or missing, according to the optional query parameters.  The default is for only @"props"@ to be present.

See [[HTTP Set Bucket Properties]] for more information about the available bucket properties.

h4. Example

```bash
$ curl -v http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test
* About to connect() to 127.0.0.1 port 8098 (#0)
*   Trying 127.0.0.1... connected
* Connected to 127.0.0.1 (127.0.0.1) port 8098 (#0)
> GET /riak/test HTTP/1.1
> User-Agent: curl/7.19.7 (universal-apple-darwin10.0) libcurl/7.19.7 OpenSSL/0.9.8l zlib/1.2.3
> Host: 127.0.0.1:8098
> Accept: */*
>
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Vary: Accept-Encoding
< Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.7.1 (participate in the frantic)
< Date: Wed, 14 Jul 2010 18:23:14 GMT
< Content-Type: application/json
< Content-Length: 368
<
* Connection #0 to host 127.0.0.1 left intact
* Closing connection #0
{"props":{"name":"test","n_val":3,"allow_mult":false,"last_write_wins":false,"precommit":[],"postcommit":[],"chash_keyfun":{"mod":"riak_core_util","fun":"chash_std_keyfun"},"linkfun":{"mod":"riak_kv_wm_link_walker","fun":"mapreduce_linkfun"},"old_vclock":86400,"young_vclock":20,"big_vclock":50,"small_vclock":10,"r":"quorum","w":"quorum","dw":"quorum","rw":"quorum"}}
```
