h1. HTTP List Keys

Lists keys in a bucket.

<div class="note"><div class="title">Not for production use</div>
This operation requires traversing all keys stored in the cluster and should not be used in production.</div>

h2. Request

```bash
GET /riak/bucket?keys=true     # List all keys
GET /riak/bucket?keys=stream   # Stream keys to the client
```

Required query parameters:

* @keys@ - defaults to @false@. When set to @true@ all keys will be returned in a single payload.  When set to @stream@, keys will be returned in chunked-encoding.

Optional query parameters:

* @props@ - defaults to @true@, which will also return [[Bucket properties|HTTP Get Bucket Properties]] in the response. Set to @false@ to suppress properties in the response.

h2. Response

Normal response codes:

* @200 OK@

Important headers:

* @Content-Type@ - @application/json@
* @Transfer-Encoding@ - @chunked@ when the @keys@ query parameter is set to @stream@.

The JSON object in the response will contain up to two entries, @"props"@ and @"keys"@ which are present or missing according to the query parameters.  If @keys=stream@ in the query parameters, multiple JSON objects in chunked-encoding will be returned containing @"keys"@ entries.

h2. Example

```bash
$ curl -i http://localhost:8098/riak/jsconf?keys=true\&props=false
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.7.3 (participate in the frantic)
Link: </riak/jsconf/challenge.jpg>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/puddi.png>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/basho.gif>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/puddikid.jpg>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/yay.png>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/thinking.png>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/victory.gif>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/slides>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/joyent.png>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/seancribbs-small.jpg>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/trollface.jpg>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/riak_logo_animated1.gif>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/victory.jpg>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/challenge.png>; riaktag="contained", </riak/jsconf/team_cribbs.png>; riaktag="contained"
Date: Thu, 12 May 2011 22:55:25 GMT
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 239

{"keys":["challenge.jpg","puddi.png","basho.gif","puddikid.jpg","yay.png","thinking.png","victory.gif","slides","joyent.png","seancribbs-small.jpg","trollface.jpg","riak_logo_animated1.gif","victory.jpg","challenge.png","team_cribbs.png"]}
```
