The list of Basho supported client libraries is ever-growing. If you don't see what you are looking for here, you may find it in the list of [[Community Contributed Projects|Community-Developed Libraries and Projects]].

Basho is currently developing and supporting drivers for:

h2. Erlang

The local Erlang client is a tightly-integrated part of Riak and the Riak REST interface uses the Erlang client internally. You can find more information about the Erlang-native driver in the [[edoc API|http://riak.basho.com/edoc/index.html]].

The primary client for code that is not inside Riak is the PBC client:

* [[Erlang Protocol Buffers Client Documentation|Erlang Client PBC]]
* [[Erlang HTTP Client on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-http-client]]
* [[Erlang Clients on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client]]

h2. Javascript

The officially supported Javascript client uses [[jQuery|http://jquery.com]] for communicating with Riak via Ajax.

[[Riak JavaScript Client on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-javascript-client]]


<div class="info"><div class="title">Sample App</div>[[yakriak - Riak-powered Ajax-polling chatroom|http://github.com/seancribbs/yakriak]]</div>


h2. Java

The officially supported Java client was created by Jon Lee.

[[Riak Java Client on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client]]

h2. PHP

The officially supported PHP driver is available on Bitbucket:

[[Riak PHP Client GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-php-client]]


<div class="info"><div class="title">Sample App</div>There is a sample PHP app that you can check out if you want to see the PHP library in action. You can get it [[here.|http://github.com/schofield/riak_php_app]]</div>



h2. Python

The officially supported Python driver is available on Bitbucket:

[[Riak Python Client on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client]]

You can also find documentation for the Python driver here:

[[http://wiki.basho.com/download/attachments/360504/riak_python.html]]


h2. Ruby

[[Ripple/riak-client|http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple]] is the officially supported Ruby driver for Riak.  It includes a driver for all major Riak client operations and an optional library for doing rich document-style object modeling.

* [[Documentation|http://seancribbs.github.com/ripple]]
* [[Wiki|http://wiki.github.com/seancribbs/ripple]]
* [[Client Gem|http://rubygems.org/gems/riak-client]]
* [[Bug Tracker|http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/issues]]

*_If you are interested in using Riak with Ruby, you might find value in:_*

* [[Why Riak Should Power Your Next Rails App|http://seancribbs.com/tech/2010/02/06/why-riak-should-power-your-next-rails-app/]]