The list of Basho supported client libraries is ever-growing. If you don't see what you are looking for here, you may find it in the list of [[Community Contributed Projects|Community-Developed Libraries and Projects]].

Basho is currently developing and supporting drivers for:

<div id="toc"></div>

h2. Erlang

The local Erlang client is a tightly-integrated part of Riak and the Riak HTTP and Protocol Buffers interfaces use the Erlang client internally.

The primary client for code that is not inside Riak is the PBC client:

* [[riak-erlang-client on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client]]
* [[Erlang Protocol Buffers Client Documentation|Erlang Client PBC]]

We also [[host the generated Erlang Client API Docs on GitHub|http://basho.github.com/riak-erlang-client/]].


h2. Javascript

The officially supported Javascript client uses [[jQuery|http://jquery.com]] for communicating with Riak via Ajax.

The [[riak-javascript-client on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-javascript-client]] is the main location for code and documentation.

There is a JavaScript sample app called [[yakriak|http://github.com/seancribbs/yakriak]], a Riak-powered Ajax-polling chatroom.

<div class="info">There is also a mature, heavily-developed Node.js client for Riak called [[riak.js|http://riakjs.org]]</div>


h2. Java

The [[riak-java-client repo on GitHub|http://github.com/basho/riak-java-client]] is the home for code and documentation. The README should get you up and and running.

The Java Client is also available [[in the Sonatype Maven Repo|https://oss.sonatype.org/index.html#nexus-search;quick~riak]].


h2. PHP

The [[riak-php-client repo on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-php-client]]. The README should get you up and and running.

We also [[host the generated PHP client API Docs on GitHub|http://basho.github.com/riak-php-client/]]

There is a [[PHP sample app|http://github.com/schofield/riak_php_app]] that you can check out if you want to see the PHP library in action.

h2. Python

The [[riak-python-client repo on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client]] is the home for code and documentation. The README should get you up and and running.

We also [[host the generated Python client API Docs on GitHub|http://basho.github.com/riak-python-client/]].

The Python Client is [[also available in the FreeBSD ports tree|http://www.freshports.org/databases/py-riak]].

h2. Ruby

[[Ripple|http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple]] is the officially supported Ruby driver for Riak.  It includes a driver for all major Riak client operations and an optional library for doing rich document-style object modeling.

* [[Documentation|http://seancribbs.github.com/ripple]]
* [[Wiki|http://wiki.github.com/seancribbs/ripple]]
* [[Client Gem|http://rubygems.org/gems/riak-client]]
* [[Bug Tracker|http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/issues]]

*_If you are interested in using Riak with Ruby, you might find value in:_*

* [[Why Riak Should Power Your Next Rails App|http://seancribbs.com/tech/2010/02/06/why-riak-should-power-your-next-rails-app/]]
