This is a short document that outlines the various elements and variables that should be considered when planning your Riak cluster. Your use case and environment variables will obviously be specific to what you're building, but this document should set you on the right path to planning and launching the suitable Riak cluster.

<div id="toc"></div>

h2. RAM 

"RAM":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random-access_memory should be viewed as the most important resource when sizing your Riak cluster. Aside from helping you keep more data closer to your users, memory will also be required when running complex MapReduce queries, and caching data to provide low latency request times.

h3. Bitcask and Memory Requirements

Your choice of local storage backend for Riak directly impacts your RAM needs. Though Riak has pluggable backend storage, it ships with Bitcask by default, and this is the recommended production backend. Why? Because it's purpose built for: 

* low latency request times
* high throughput
* the ability to handle data sets much larger than RAM w/o degradation

Bitcask's one major requirement, however, is that it must keep the entire "keydir" in memory. The "keydir" is a hash table that maps each concatenated bucket+key name in a Bitcask ("a Bitcask" is the name for each file contained within each Bitcask backend ) to a fixed-size structure giving the file, offset, and size of the most recently written entry for that bucket+key on disk. 

If you want to read more about what the keydir is and what it entails, and some more about Bitcask in general, go  "here":http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello-bitcask/ and "here":http://downloads.basho.com/papers/bitcask-intro.pdf. (You should read these.)

With that in mind, the following variables will factor into your RAM calculation:

<div class="info">
# _static bitcask per key overhead_ - 22 bytes per key
# _estimated average bucket+key length_ -  this is the combined number of characters your bucket+keynames will require (on average). We'll assume 		1 byte per character. 
# _Estimated Total Objects_ - the total number of key/value pairs your cluster will have when started
# _Replication Value (n_val)_ - the number of times each key will be replicated when written to Riak; defaults to 3
</div>

And the actual equation: 

<div class="info">
(static bitcask per key overhead + estimated average bucket+key length in bytes) * estimate total number of keys *  n_val = Approximate RAM Needed for Bitcask
</div>

For example, if you estimate having:

* 50,000,000 keys in your cluster to start
* approximately 30 bytes for each bucket+key name
* default n_val of 3 

the amount of RAM you would need for Bitcask is about *9.78 GBs across your entire cluster.* 

Additionally, Bitcask relies on your operating system's filesystem cache to deliver high performance reads. So, when sizing your cluster take this into account and plan on having several more gigabytes of RAM available for your filesystem cache. 

The only time we recommend against using Bitcask is when you calculate that your RAM needs will exceed your hardware resources. (In other words, if you can't afford the RAM to enable you to use Bitcask.) When this is the case, we recommend you use Innostore.

h3. Innostore

If Bitcask's RAM needs are prohibitive, Basho recommends the use of the Innostore backend. Innostore ships as a separate package and has several different options to gain optimal performance, and many of the same techniques employed when configuring a server for InnoDB hold true for Innostore. While Innostore doesn't require a large amount of RAM to operate, supplying it with the maximum amount of memory available will lead to higher performance.

<div class="info">For more information see [[Setting Up Innostore]] and [[Innostore Configuration and Tuning]].</div>

h2. Disk

Now that you have an idea of how much RAM you'll need, it's time to think about disk space. Disk space needs are much easier to calculate and essentially boil down to this simple equation:

<div class="info">Estimated Total Objects * Average Object Size * n_val</div>

For example with:

* 50,000,000 objects
* an average object size of two kilobytes (2,048 bytes) 
* the default n_val of 3

then you would need just over approximately *286 GBs* of disk space in the entire cluster to accommodate your data.  

(Here at Basho, we believe that databases should be durable out of the box. When we built Riak, we did so in a way that you could write to disk while keeping response times below your users' expectations. So this calculation assumes you'll be keeping the entire data set on disk.)

Many of the considerations taken when configuring a machine to serve a database can be applied to configuring a node for Riak as well. Mounting disks with noatime and having separate disks for your OS and Riak data lead to much better performance. See [[Hosting and Server Configuration]] for more information

h2. Read/Write Profile

Read/write ratios, as well as the the distribution of key access, should influence the configuration and design of your cluster. If your use case is write heavy you will need less RAM for caching, in addition if only a certain portion of keys is accessed regularly, such as a "pareto distribution":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_distribution, you won't need as much RAM available to cache those keys' values.

h2. Ring Size/Number of Partitions

Ring size is the number of partitions that make up your Riak Cluster. This is a number that is configured before you cluster is started, and is set in your app.config file under the [[ring_creation_size|Configuration Files#ring_creation_size]] parameter. 

The default number of partitions in a Riak cluster is 64. This works for smaller clusters, but if you plan to grow your cluster past 5 nodes it is recommended you consider a larger ring size. Ring sizes must be a power of 2. The minimum number of partitions recommended per node is 10, and you can determine the number of partitions that will be allocated per node by dividing the number of partitions by the number of nodes. *At the moment, the ring size you choose will be the same for the life of the cluster, so taking growth into consideration is extremely important.* 

For most moderate-sized Riak clusters (8-16 nodes) 128, 256, and 512 partitions are excellent options that will allow you to incrementally grow (or shrink) your cluster. If you're unsure about the best number of partitions to use, "consult the Riak Mailing List":http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users_lists.basho.com for some suggestions.

h2. Other Factors

Riak is built to run in a clustered environment and while it will compensate for network partitions they cause increased load on the system. In addition, running in a virtualized environment that lacks low latency IO access can drastically decrease performance. Before putting your Riak cluster in production is recommended you gain a full understanding of your environment's behavior so you know how your cluster performs under load for an extended period of time. Doing so will help you size your cluster for future growth and lead to optimal performance.

Basho recommends using "Basho Bench":http://wiki.basho.com/Benchmarking-with-Basho-Bench.html for benchmarking the performance of your cluster.

h3. Bandwidth

Riak uses Erlang's built in distribution capabilities to provide reliable access to data. A Riak cluster can be deployed in many different network topologies, but it is recommended to have as little latency between nodes as possible. High latency leads to sub-optimal performance. It is not recommended to deploy a single Riak cluster across two data centers. If you need this capability Basho offers an inter-datacenter replication option that is built to keep multiple Riak clusters in sync across several geographically diverse deployments. More information on Riak EnterpriseDS can be found "here":http://www.basho.com/products_riak_overview.php.

h3. IO

In general the biggest bottleneck for Riak will be the amount of IO available to it, especially in the case of write-heavy work loads. Riak functions much like any other database and the design of your disk access should take this into account. Because Riak is clustered and your data is stored on multiple physical nodes, you can consider forgoing a tradition RAID setup for redundancy and focus on providing the least latency possible using SATA Drives or SSDs, for example.

h2. Additional resources

"Hosting and Server Creation":http://wiki.basho.com/Hosting-and-Server-Configuration.html
"Basho Bench":http://wiki.basho.com/Benchmarking-with-Basho-Bench.html


