Riak has two configuration files located in @etc/@ if you are using a source install and in @/etc/riak@ if you used a binary install. The files are @app.config@ and @vm.args@.

The @app.config@ file is used to set various attributes for the node such as the backend the node will use to store data. The @vm.args@ file is used to pass parameters to the Erlang node such as the name or cookie of the Erlang node.

<div id="toc"></div>

h2. app.config

Riak and the Erlang applications it depends on are configured by settings in the @app.config@ file in the @etc@ directory of the Riak node.  The format of the file is similar to Erlang's ".app" files:

```bash
[
   {riak_core, [
      {ring_state_dir, "data/ring"}
      %% More riak_core settings...
   ]},
   {riak_kv, [
      {storage_backend, riak_dets_backend},
      {riak_kv_dets_backend_root, "data/dets"}
      %% More riak_kv settings...
   ]}
   %% Other application configurations...
].
```

<div class="note"><div class="title">Configuration changes in 0.10</div>Many configuration settings changed names and sections in the 0.10 release.  Please backup your @app.config@ file when upgrading and then copy your previous customizations to the proper places in the new file. See [[the transition notes|http://hg.basho.com/riak/raw/efc290fd9c23/TRANSITION]] for more information.</div>

<div class="note"><div class="title">Configuration changes in 0.12</div>The settings related to handoff moved from @riak_kv@ to @riak_core@ in the 0.12 release.  These are:
* @handoff_ip@
* @handoff_port@
* @handoff_concurrency@</div>

<div class="note"><div class="title">Configuration changes in 0.14</div>The settings for web_ip and web_port are deprecated.  The new configuration mechanism is to use a list of IPs and ports in the http{} section of riak_core of app.config.

The configuration for parameters for the Javascript VMs in the riak_kv section of app.config have changed and should be edited if your previous configuration didn't use the default parameters. You can see the new default configuration parameters for the 0.14 app.config [[here|0-14-app-config]].</div>

h3. riak_core settings

h4. cluster_name

The name of the cluster. This currently has no visible effect, but could be useful for identifying multiple clusters within your larger infrastructure.

h4. default_bucket_props

These are properties used for buckets that have not been explicitly defined (as outlined in the [[REST API]]).They are useful for setting default bucket behavior such as:
* the number of replicas stored (*"n_val")
* whether or not siblings are allowed (*allow_mult")
* the quorum values for get, put and delete requests (*r, w, dw, rw)
* global pre- and post-commit hooks (*precommit, postcommit*)

```erlang
{default_bucket_props, [{n_val,3},
   {allow_mult,false},
   {last_write_wins,false},
   {precommit, []},
   {postcommit, []},
   {chash_keyfun, {riak_core_util, chash_std_keyfun}},
   {linkfun, {modfun, riak_kv_wm_link_walker, mapreduce_linkfun}}
]}
```

h4. gossip_interval

How often nodes in the cluster will share information about their ring state, in milliseconds. (default: "60000")

h4. handoff_concurrency

Number of vnodes, per physical node, allowed to perform handoff at once (default: "4").

h4. handoff_port

TCP port number for the handoff listener (default: "8099")

h4. handoff_ip

The IP address the handoff listener will bind to. (default: "0.0.0.0")

h4. ring_state_dir

The directory on-disk in which to store the ring state (default: "data/ring")

Riak's ring state is stored on-disk by each node, such that each node may be restarted at any time (purposely, or via automatic failover) and know what its place in the cluster was before it terminated, without needing immediate access to the rest of the cluster.

h4. ring_creation_size

The number of partitions to divide the hash space into (default: "64")

By default, each Riak node will own ring_creation_size/(number of nodes in the cluster) partitions.  It is generally a good idea to specify a "ring_creation_size" a few times the number of nodes in your cluster (e.g. specify 64-256 partitions for a 4-node cluster).  This gives you room to expand the number of nodes in the cluster, without worrying about under-use due to owning too few partitions. This number should be a power of 2 (64, 128, 256, etc.).

<div class="note">The "ring_creation_size" should be established before your cluster is live and running and should not be changed thereafter.</div>

h4. target_n_val

The highest _n_val_ that you generally intend to use. This affects how partitions are distributed amongst the cluster and how preflists are calculated, helping ensure that data is never stored to the same physical node more than once. *You will only need to change this setting in rare circumstances.*

Assuming _ring_creation_size_ is a power of 2, the ideal value for this setting is both

* greater than or equal to the largest _n_val_ of any bucket, and
* an even divisor of the number of partitions in your ring (_ring_creation_size_).

The default value is _4_. For this to be effective at preventing hotspots, your cluster size (number of physical nodes) must be equal to or larger than _target_n_val_.

h4. http

A list of ip addresses and ports on which Riak's HTTP interface should listen (default: {"127.0.0.1", 8091 })

Riak's HTTP interface will not be started if this setting is not defined.

h4. https

A list of ip addresses and ports on which Riak's HTTPS interface should listen (default: not enabled)

Riak's HTTPS interface will not be started if this setting is not defined.

h4. ssl

You can override the default SSL key and certificate settings (default: etc/cert.pem, etc/key.pem)

h4. http_logdir

Override the default location of the access logs.  See the "webmachine_logger_module":#webmachine_logger_module settings to enable access logs.

h4. disable_http_nagle

When set to @true@, this option will disable the Nagle buffering algorithm for HTTP traffic.  This is equivalent to setting the @TCP_NODELAY@ option on the HTTP socket. The setting defaults to @false@.  If you experience consistent minimum latencies in multiples of 20 milliseconds, setting this option to @true@ may reduce latency.

h3. riak_kv settings

h4. add_paths

A list of paths to add to the Erlang code path.

This setting is especially useful for allowing Riak to use external modules during map/reduce queries.

h4. mapred_name

The base of the path in the URL exposing [[MapReduce]] via HTTP. (default: "mapred")

h4. mapred_queue_dir

The directory used to store a transient queue for pending map tasks (default: "data/mrqueue")

h4. map_js_vm_count

The number of Javascript VMs started to handle map phases. (default: "8")

h4. reduce_js_vm_count

The number of Javascript VMs started to handle reduce phases.  (default: "6")

h4. hook_js_vm_count

The number of Javascript VMs started to handle pre-commit hooks.(default: "2")

h4. mapper_batch_size

Number of items the mapper will fetch in one request. Larger values can impact read/write performance for non-MapReduce requests. (default: "5")

h4. js_max_vm_mem

The maximum amount of memory allocated to each Javascript virtual machine, in megabytes. (default: "8")

h4. js_thread_stack

The maximum amount of thread stack space to allocate to Javascript virtual machines, in megabytes.  (default: "16")

h4. map_cache_size

Number of object held in the MapReduce cache. These will be ejected when the cache runs out of room or the bucket/key pair for that entry changes. (default: "10000")

h4. js_source_dir

Where to load user-defined built in Javascript functions (default: unset)

h4. pb_ip

The IP address that the [[Protocol Buffers interface|PBC API]] will bind to. (default: "127.0.0.1") If not set, the PBC interface will not be started.

h4. pb_port

The port that the [[Protocol Buffers interface|PBC API]] will bind to. (default: 8087)

h4. raw_name

The base of the path in the URL exposing Riak's HTTP interface (default: "riak")

The default value will expose data at @/riak/Bucket/Key@.  For example, changing this
setting to "bar" would expose the interface at @/bar/Bucket/Key@.

h4. riak_kv_stat

Enables the statistics-aggregator (/stats URL and _riak-admin status_ command) if set to *true*. (default is true)

h4. stats_urlpath

The base of the path in the URL exposing the statistics-aggregator. (default: "stats")

h4. storage_backend

The module name of the storage backend that Riak should use (default: "riak_kv_bitcask_backend")

The storage format Riak uses is configurable.  Riak will refuse to start if no storage backend is specified.

Available backends, and their additional configuration options are:
* *riak_kv_bitcask_backend*
  Data is stored in [[Bitcask|https://github.com/basho/bitcask]] append-only storage
* *riak_kv_dets_backend*
  Data is stored in DETS files
** *riak_kv_dets_backend_root*
    Root directory where the DETS files are stored (default: "data/dets"
* *riak_kv_ets_backend*
  Data is stored in ETS tables (in-memory)
* *riak_kv_gb_trees_backend*
  Data is stored in general balanced trees (in-memory)
* *riak_kv_fs_backend*
  Data is stored in binary files on the filesystem
** *riak_kv_fs_backendroot*
   Root directory where the files are stored (ex: @/var/lib/riak/data@)
* *riak_kv_multi_backend*
  Enables storing data for different buckets in different backends.
  Specify the backend to use for a bucket with _riak_client:set_bucket(BucketName,[{backend, BackendName}]_ in Erlang or {"props":{"backend":"BackendName"}} in the [[REST API]].
** *multi_backend_default*
    Default backend to use if none is specified for a bucket (one of the *BackendName* atoms specified in the *multi_backend* setting)
** *multi_backend*
    List of backends to provide.
    Format of each backend specification is @{BackendName, BackendModule, BackendConfig}@, where *BackendName* is any Erlang binary, e.g. @<<"cache">>@, *BackendModule* is the name of the Erlang module implementing the backend (the same values you would provide as "storage_backend" settings), and *BackendConfig* is a parameter that will be passed to the "start/2" function of the backend module. See below for an example.
* *riak_kv_cache_backend*
  A backend that behaves as an LRU-with-timed-expiry cache
** *riak_kv_cache_backend_memory*
    Maximum amount of memory to allocate, in megabytes (default: "100")
** *riak_kv_cache_backend_ttl*
    Amount by which to extend an object's expiry lease on each access, in seconds (default: "600")
** *riak_kv_cache_backend_max_ttl*
    Maximum allowed lease time (default: "3600")

An example of combining the *riak_kv_cache_backend* and the *riak_kv_bitcask_backend* as multi backends with custom settings, making the @<<"cache">>@ backend the default, could look like this:

```erlang
{storage_backend, riak_kv_multi_backend},
{multi_backend_default, <<"cache">>},
{multi_backend, [
   {<<"bitcask">>, riak_kv_bitcask_backend, [
      {data_root, "/var/riak/data/bitcask"}
   ]},
   {<<"cache">>, riak_kv_cache_backend, [
      {riak_kv_cache_backend_memory, 1024},
      {riak_kv_cache_backend_ttl, 600},
      {riak_kv_cache_backend_max_ttl, 3600}
   ]}
]},
```

While the cache backend is now the default for all buckets, you can choose either "cache" or "bitcask" as custom values when setting bucket properties through the [[REST API]].

<div class="note"><div class="title"> Dynamically Changing ttl</div>There is currently no way to dynamically change the ttl per bucket. The current work around would be to define multiple "riak_cache_backends" under "riak_multi_backend" with different ttl values.</div>

h3. vnode_mr_timeout

How long a map function is permitted to execute on a vnode before it times out and is retried on another vnode, in milliseconds. (default: "1000")

h4. webmachine_logger_module

This needs to be set in order to enable access logs.

```erlang
{webmachine, [{webmachine_logger_module, webmachine_logger}]}
```

<div class="note">The additional disk I/O of an access log imposes a performance cost you may not wish to pay.  Therefore, by default, Riak does not produce access logs.</div>

h2. vm.args

Parameters for the Erlang node on which Riak runs are set in the @vm.args@ file in the @etc@ directory of the embedded Erlang node. Most of these settings can be left at their defaults until you are ready to tune performance.

Two settings you may be interested in right away, though, are "-name" and "-setcookie".  These control the Erlang node names (possibly host-specific), and Erlang inter-node communication access (cluster-specific), respectively.

The format of the file is fairly loose: all lines that do not begin with the "#" character are concatenated, and passed to the "erl" on the command line, as is.

More details about each of these settings can be found in the [[Erlang|http://www.erlang.org/doc/man/erl.html]] documentation for the "erl" Erlang virtual machine.

h3. Erlang Runtime Configuration Options

h4. -name

the name of the Erlang node (default: "riak@127.0.0.1")

The default value, @riak@127.0.0.1@ will work for running Riak locally, but for distributed (multi-node) use, the value after the "@" should be changed to the IP address of the machine on which the node is running.

If you have properly-configured DNS, the short-form of this name can be used (for example: "riak").  The name of the node will then be "riak@Host.Domain".

h4. -setcookie

the cookie of the Erlang node (default: "riak")

Erlang nodes grant or deny access based on the sharing of a previously-shared cookie.  You should use the same cookie for every node in your Riak cluster, but it should be a not-easily-guessed string unique to your deployment, to prevent non-authorized access.

h4. -heart

enable "heart" node monitoring (default: "/disabled/")

Heart will restart nodes automatically, should they crash.  However, heart is so good at restarting nodes that it can be difficult to prevent it from doing so. Enable heart once you are sure that you wish to have the node restarted automatically on failure.

h4. +K

enable kernel polling (default: "true")

h4. +A

number of threads in the async thread pool (default: 5)

h4. -env

set host environment variables for Erlang

h4. -smp

Enables Erlang's SMP support.  _This is necessary for the innostore backend to work, even on single-processor systems._ (default: "enable")

h2. Rebar Overlays

If you are going to be rebuilding Riak often, you will want to edit the @vm.args@ and @app.config@ files in the @rel/files@ directory. These files are used whenever a new release is generated using "make rel" or "rebar generate". Each time a release is generated any existing release must first be destroyed. Changes made to release files (@rel/riak/etc/vm.args@, @rel/riak/etc/app.config@, etc.) would be lost when the release is destroyed.


<div class="note">In versions of Riak prior to 0.12, overlay files were stored in the @rel/overlay@ directory instead of @rel/files@.</div>
