h2(#installation).  Installation

Click the link for your operating system to see instructions on how to install Riak:

* [[Installing on Debian and Ubuntu]]
* [[Installing on RHEL and CentOS]]
* [[Installing on SUSE]]
* [[Installing on Mac OS X]]
* [[Installing from source|Installing Riak from Source]]

h2(#startup).  Starting up

To start up a Riak node, change directory as necessary to where you installed Riak (in the source directory, it's @rel/riak/bin@ and run the *riak* command like so:


```bash
$ riak start
```


To run Riak with an interactive Erlang console:


```bash
$ riak console
```


Once your node has started, you can double-check that it is running using:


```bash
$ riak ping
pong
```


The command will respond with *pong* if the node is running, or *pang* if it is not.


<div class="note"><div class="title">Open Files Limit</div>
As you may have noticed, if you haven't adjusted your _ulimit_ settings, Riak will warn you. You're advised to raise your open files limit when running Riak. You can read more about why on the [[Open Files Limit]] page.
</div>

h2(#doesitwork).  Does it work?

The easiest way to test whether Riak is working is to use the @curl@ command-line tool.  Now that you have Riak running on your local machine, run this command:


```bash
$ curl -v http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test
```


You should get a response that looks like this:


```bash
* About to connect() to 127.0.0.1 port 8098 (#0)
*   Trying 127.0.0.1... connected
* Connected to 127.0.0.1 (127.0.0.1) port 8098 (#0)
> GET /riak/test HTTP/1.1
> User-Agent: curl/7.19.4 (universal-apple-darwin10.0) libcurl/7.19.4 OpenSSL/0.9.8l zlib/1.2.3
> Host: 127.0.0.1:8098
> Accept: */*
>
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Vary: Accept-Encoding
< Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.6 (eat around the stinger)
< Date: Mon, 08 Mar 2010 16:42:49 GMT
< Content-Type: application/json
< Content-Length: 266
<
* Connection #0 to host 127.0.0.1 left intact
* Closing connection #0
{"props":{"name":"test","allow_mult":false,"big_vclock":50,"chash_keyfun":{"mod":"riak_util","fun":"chash_std_keyfun"},"linkfun":{"mod":"raw_link_walker_resource","fun":"mapreduce_linkfun"},"n_val":3,"old_vclock":86400,"small_vclock":10,"young_vclock":20},"keys":[]}
```


h2. Now what?

You have a working Riak system! From here you might want to check out:
* [[Client Libraries for connecting Riak to your favorite programming language|Client Libraries and Community Code]]
* Get some [[Sample Data]]
* [[Add more nodes to your Riak cluster|Basic Cluster Setup]]
* [[The high level overview of the Riak design and functionality|An Introduction to Riak]]
* [[The more in depth look at how Riak works|How Things Work]].
