Riak requires [[Erlang|http://erlang.org]] R13B04 or later. Riak versions prior to 0.12 will not function on the R14 series of Erlang. For Erlang to build and install, you must have a GNU-compatible build system, and the development bindings of @ncurses@ and @openssl@.

<div class="info">The Riak binary packages for Debian and Ubuntu, Mac OS X,  and RHEL and CentOS do not require that you build Erlang from source. *You will have to download and install Erlang, however, if you're planning on completing [[The Riak Fast Track]].*</div>

<div id="toc"></div>

h2. Install using kerl

kerl is a simple shell script that allows installing different Erlang versions with only two
commands. It's probably the easiest way to install Erlang from source on a system.
Installing kerl is as simple as running the following command

```bash
$ curl -O https://github.com/dreverri/kerl/raw/master/kerl; chmod a+x kerl
```

Then you can just build the Erlang release of your choice, as of current, you'll need
R13B04:

```bash
$ ./kerl build R13B04 r13b04
```

This installs Erlang and does all the steps required to manually install Erlang for you.

When successfully built you can install it using

```bash
$ ./kerl install R13B04 /opt/erlang/r13b04
$ . /opt/erlang/r13b04/activate
```

The last line activates the Erlang build that was just installed into /opt/erlang/r13b04.
See the [[kerl readme|https://github.com/dreverri/kerl]] for more details on the available
commands.

If you prefer to install completely manually though, we've got you covered too.

h2. Installing on GNU/Linux

Most distributions _do not_ have the most recent Erlang release available, *so you will need to install from source*.

First, make sure you have a compatible build system and the @ncurses@ and @openssl@ development libraries installed.  On Debian/Ubuntu use this command:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install build-essential libncurses5-dev openssl libssl-dev
```

On RHEL/CentOS use this command:

```bash
$ sudo yum install gcc glibc-devel make ncurses-devel openssl-devel
```

Next, download, build and install Erlang:

```bash
$ wget http://erlang.org/download/otp_src_R13B04.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf otp_src_R13B04.tar.gz
$ cd otp_src_R13B04
$ ./configure && make && sudo make install
```

h2. Installing on Mac OS/X

You can install Erlang in several ways on OS/X: from source, with Homebrew, or with MacPorts.

h3. Source

To build from source, you must have XCode tools installed from the CD that came with your Mac or from Apple's [[Developer website|http://developer.apple.com/]].

First, download and unpack the source:

```bash
$ curl -O http://erlang.org/download/otp_src_R13B04.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf otp_src_R13B04.tar.gz
$ cd otp_src_R13B04
```

Next, configure Erlang.  If you're on Snow Leopard (OS/X 10.6) or Leopard (OS/X 10.5) with an Intel processor:

```bash
$ ./configure --enable-hipe --enable-smp-support --enable-threads \
--enable-kernel-poll  --enable-darwin-64bit
```

If you're on a non-Intel processor or older version of OS/X:

```bash
$ ./configure --enable-hipe --enable-smp-support --enable-threads --enable-kernel-poll
```

Now build and install:

```bash
$ make && sudo make install
```

You will be prompted for your sudo password.

h3.  Homebrew

<div id="note">The current Homebrew formula for Erlang installs R14B03, which is not
compatible with the Riak 0.14 release series, and the compile will fail. Install via
Homebrew only if you intend to play with Riak's master branch, which runs only on R14B02 and
R14B03, but is not recommended for production usage in any way.</div>

If you intend to install Riak with Homebrew, simply follow those instructions [[here|Installing on Mac OS X]] and Erlang will be installed automatically. To install it separately:

```bash
$ brew install erlang
```

h3.  MacPorts

Installing with MacPorts is easy:


```bash
$ port install erlang +ssl
```
