Riak should be installed from source if you are building on a platform for which a package does not exist or you are interested in contributing to Riak.

h2. Dependencies

Riak requires [[Erlang|http://www.erlang.org/]] R13B04 or later. If you do not have Erlang already installed, see [[Installing Erlang]]. Don't worry, it's easy!

<div class="note">
Riak will not compile with Clang. Please make sure your default C/C++ compiler is GCC.
</div>

h2. Installation

The following instructions generate a complete, self-contained build of Riak in @$RIAK/rel/riak@ where "$RIAK" is the location of the unpacked or cloned source.

h3. Installing from source package

Download the Riak source package from the [[Download Center|http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/]] and build:


```bash
$ curl -O http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.14/riak-0.14.2.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf riak-0.14.2.tar.gz
$ cd riak-0.14.2
$ make rel
```

h3. Installing from GitHub

Clone the repository using [[Git|http://git-scm.com/]] and build:

```bash
$ git clone git://github.com/basho/riak.git
$ cd riak
$ make rel
```

h2. Platform Specific Instructions

For instructions about specific platforms, see:

* [[Installing on Debian and Ubuntu]]
* [[Installing on Mac OS X]]
* [[Installing on RHEL and CentOS]]

If you are running Riak on a platform not in the list above and need some help getting it up and running, join [[The Riak Mailing List|http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users_lists.basho.com]] and inquire about it there. We'll get you straightened out.

h3. Windows

Riak is not currently supported on Microsoft Windows.
