The following steps should get you up and running with Riak on MacOSX 10.5 or 10.6. You can install from source or download a precompiled tarball.


<div class="note"><div class="title">ulimit on OS X</div>OS X gives you a very small limit on open file handles, so even with a backend that uses very few file handles, it's possible to run out. See [[Open Files Limit]] for more information about changing the limit.</div>

----

*Install Types*
<div id="toc"></div>

h2. From Precompiled Tarballs

To run Riak from our precompiled tarball, run these commands for the appropriate platform:

h3. 64-bit

Only a 32bit binary is available at this time.


h3. 32-bit


```bash
$ curl -O http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.14/riak-0.14.2-osx-i386.tar.gz
$ tar xzvf riak-0.14.2-osx-i386.tar.gz
```

After the release is untared you will be able to cd into the riak directory and execute bin/riak start to start the Riak node.

h2.  Homebrew

<div class="note">
Do *not* use Homebrew to install Riak until further notice as it will fail. Riak version 0.14.x does not work with versions R14B02 and later of Erlang. Homebrew is configured to use the latest Erlang, which is currently R14B03. You are advised to build from source until we can rectify this build issue.
</div>

Installing with Homebrew is easy:


```bash
$ brew install riak
```

Homebrew will install Erlang if you don't have it already.

h2. From source

You must have XCode tools installed from the CD that came with your Mac or from Apple's [[Developer website|http://developer.apple.com]].

<div class="note">
Riak will not compile with Clang. Please make sure your default C/C++ compiler is GCC.
</div>

Riak requires [[Erlang|http://www.erlang.org/]] R13B04 or later. If you do not have Erlang already installed, see [[Installing Erlang]]. Don't worry, it's easy!

Next, download and unpack the source distribution.


```bash
$ curl -O http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.14/riak-0.14.2.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf riak-0.14.2.tar.gz
$ cd riak-0.14.2
$ make rel
```


If you get errors when building about "incompatible architecture", please verify that you built Erlang with the same architecture as your system (Snow Leopard - 64bit, everything else - 32bit).

Next Steps: [[Basic Cluster Setup|Basic Cluster Setup]] will show you how to go from one node to bigger than Google.
