h1. Luwak

h2. About Luwak

Luwak is an application built on top of Riak that provides functionality for managing large files. Luwak works by breaking large files into blocks and storing each block as a separate Riak object. Luwak is bundled with Riak, as of version 0.13, but disabled by default. (You can also browse the Luwak source code [[on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/luwak]].)

h2. Enabling Luwak

Luwak can be enabled in Riak's @app.config@ file. As of version 0.13 a new section has been added to the @app.config@ file for Luwak:

```erlang
{luwak, [{enabled, false}]}
```

To enable Luwak set the "enabled" property to "true" and restart Riak:

```erlang
{luwak, [{enabled, true}]}
```

h2. Configuring Luwak

Luwak, by default, is accessible from the @/luwak@ endpoint of Riak (i.e. @http://127.0.0.1:8098/luwak@). This endpoint is configurable via the "prefix" property in the Luwak section of @app.config@:

```erlang
{luwak,
 [{enabled, true},
  {prefix, "different_luwak_prefix"}
]}
```

h2. Luwak Operations

Luwak operations are detailed in the [[HTTP API|HTTP API#Luwak Operations (Large Objects)]].

h2. Luwak and Map/Reduce

Looking to Map/Reduce over data you are storing in Luwak? Start here:

* [[Luwak Map/Reduce on Riak Function Contrib|http://contrib.basho.com/luwak_mr.html]] 
* [[Baseball Batting Averages Using Riak Map/Reduce|http://blog.basho.com/2011/01/20/baseball-batting-average,-using-riak-map/reduce/]] (From the Basho Blog)
* [[Fixing the Count|http://blog.basho.com/2011/01/26/fixing-the-count/]] (From the Basho Blog)
* [[MapReducing Big Data With Luwak|http://vimeo.com/20074937]] (Recorded Webinar)
