<div id="toc"></div>

h2. General Overviews, Tutorials, and Introductions

* [[Justin Sheehy's Riak Presentation at NoSQL East|https://nosqleast.com/2009/#speaker/sheehy]]
* [[Riak and Nitrogen by Example - Rusty Klophaus at Erlang User Conf. 2009|http://vimeo.com/8258045]]
* [[Why Riak Should Power Your Next Rails App|http://seancribbs.com/tech/2010/02/06/why-riak-should-power-your-next-rails-app/]]
* [[Wrap Your Head Around Riak's MapReduce|http://seancribbs.com/tech/2010/02/07/wrap-your-sql-head-around-riaks-map-reduce/]]
* [[Link Walking By Example|http://blog.basho.com/2010/02/24/link-walking-by-example/]]
* [[Why Vector Clocks Are Easy|http://blog.basho.com/2010/01/29/why-vector-clocks-are-easy/]]
* [[An Introduction to Innostore|http://blog.basho.com/2010/02/02/basho-podcast-three---an-introduction-to-innostore/]]
* [[Schema Design in Riak - An Introduction|http://blog.basho.com/2010/03/19/schema-design-in-riak---introduction//]]
* [[Schema Design in Riak Pt. 2 - Relationships|http://blog.basho.com/2010/03/25/schema-design-in-riak---relationships/]]

h2. Slide Decks

This is a sample of the slide decks used in presentations given by Riak Core Developers and Developer Advocates and members of the Riak Community at conferences, meetups, and various other events worldwide.

* [[Introducing Riak and Ripple|http://www.slideshare.net/seancribbs/introducing-riak-and-ripple]] - This is a great overview of working with Riak and Ripple from Sean Cribbs, the author of Ripple.
* [[Getting Started with Riak - Nosql Live 2010 Boston|http://www.slideshare.net/rklophaus/getting-started-with-riak-nosql-live-2010-boston]] - Delivered by Rusty Klophaus, this is a very high level overview of Riak and includes basic Python code snippets.
* [[Node.js + Riak|http://www.slideshare.net/frank06/nodejs-riak]] - This slide deck was put together by Francisco Treacy, the author of "Riakjs" and one of several developers working with Riak and Node.js at [[Widescript|http://widescript.com]].
* [[Riak MapReduce|http://www.slideshare.net/dreverri/riak-mapreduce]] - Basho Developer Advocate Dan Reverri built this slide deck to be used with the Riak MapReduce Webinar he delivered recently. This should give you a solid introduction to Riak's MapReduce functionality.
* [[Introduction to Riak - Red Dirt Ruby Conf Training|http://www.slideshare.net/seancribbs/introduction-to-riak-red-dirt-ruby-conf-training]] - Sean Cribbs headed an extensive Riak training session at the Red Dirt Ruby Conference. These are his slides from that workshop. ([[You can also watch the video here|http://reddirtrubyconf.com/video]])
* [[Introducing Riak|http://www.slideshare.net/hemulen/introducing-riak]] - This Riak overview clocks in at a whopping 209 slides, but it's well worth it. Why? Because Basho Developer Kevin Smith makes and delivers awesome presentations.
* [[Schema Design for Riak|http://www.slideshare.net/seancribbs/schema-design-for-riak]] - Sean Cribbs' slides from the recent "Schema Design for Riak" Webinar.
* [[Rolling With Riak|http://www.slideshare.net/johnthethird/rolling-with-riak]] - These are slides used in a short presentation given by Riak Community Member John Llynch.
* [[Riak in Ten Minutes|http://www.slideshare.net/jonmeredith/riak-in-ten-minutes]] - As the title suggests, this is a whirlwind but worthwhile slide presentation that was delivered in ten minutes and looks at Riak from a very high level. It was originally presented at Gluecon.
* [[Riak and Ruby|http://www.slideshare.net/gschofield/riak-and-ruby]] - Another great overview slide deck, this one starts with general Riak info and ends with some Ruby code examples courtesy of Developer Advocate Grant Schofield.
* [[Riak A Friendly Key Value Store for the Web|http://www.slideshare.net/codefluency/riak-a-friendly-keyvalue-store-for-the-web-4726998]] - Used in a presentation by Bruce Williams at the Devnation Conference in Portland, OR, this is not only a great overview of Riak, but the way the slides are put together is exceptional.
* [[Using Riak with PHP|http://www.slideshare.net/jonmeredith/php-api]] - Want to use Riak with PHP? This presentation from Jon Meredith is a short, straightforward introduction to Riak + PHP using code examples and a sample app.
* [[Using Basho Bench to Load Test Distributed Applications|http://www.slideshare.net/BashoTechnologies/using-basho-bench-to-load-test-distributed-applications]] - If you're looking for info on how to benchmark Riak and other databases with our open source tool "Basho Bench," this is a great place to start.
* [[Building Distributed Systems with Riak and Riak Core|http://www.slideshare.net/argv0/riak-coredevnation]] - Coming in at just under 20 slides, this deck is a high level overview of how Riak Key/Value code is differentiated from Riak Core code and what some of the use cases are for building apps and services on Riak Core.

h2. Sample Applications built using Riak:

* [[Slideblast|http://github.com/rklophaus/SlideBlast]] - share and control slide presentation for the web.
* [[riak_php_app|http://github.com/schofield/riak_php_app]] - a small PHP app that shows some basic usage of the Riak PHP library.
* [[riak-url-shortener|http://github.com/seancribbs/riak-url-shortener]] - a small Ruby app (with Sinatra) that creates short URLs and stores them in Riak.
* [[yakriak|http://github.com/seancribbs/yakriak]] - Riak-powered Ajax-polling chatroom.
* [[wriaki|http://bitbucket.org/basho/wriaki/src]] - a wiki app backed by Riak.

h2. Screencasts:

* [[Introduction to JavaScript MapReduce in Riak|http://blog.basho.com/2010/02/03/the-release-riak-0.8-and-javascript-map/reduce/]]
* [[Riak in an Embedded Node Using Rebar|http://blog.basho.com/2009/12/17/basho-screencast---dave-smith-introduces-riak-in-an-embedded-node/]]
* [[Setting up a Three Node Riak Cluster|http://vimeo.com/11240885]] (Used as part of [[The Riak Fast Track]])
* [[Brief Overview of JavaScript MapReduce in Riak|http://vimeo.com/11328947]] (Used as part of [[The Riak Fast Track]])
* [[Links and Link Walking in Riak|http://vimeo.com/14563219]](Used as part of [[The Riak Fast Track]])
* [[Tuning CAP Controls in Riak|http://vimeo.com/11172656]] (Used as part of [[The Riak Fast Track]])


h2. Influential Papers, Books, and other Publications

* [[Amazon's Dynamo Paper|http://www.allthingsdistributed.com/2007/10/amazons_dynamo.html]]
* [[Distributed Systems: Principles and Paradigms|http://www.amazon.com/Distributed-Systems-Principles-Andrew-Tanenbaum/dp/0130888931]]
* [[Time, Clocks, and the Ordering of Events in a Distributed System|http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.142.3682]]
* [[Distributed Algorithms|http://www.amazon.com/Distributed-Algorithms-Kaufmann-Management-Systems/dp/1558603484/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1273371587&sr=1-1]]
* [[Elements of Distributed Computing|http://www.amazon.com/Elements-Distributed-Computing-Vijay-Garg/dp/0471036005/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_c]]
* [[Towards Robust Distributed Systems|http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~brewer/cs262b-2004/PODC-keynote.pdf]]
* [[Brewer's Conjecture and the Feasibility of Consistent Available Partition-Tolerant Web Services|http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.20.1495]]

h2. Recorded Webinars

* [[Riak with NodeJS:|http://vimeo.com/21099379]] - using the riak-js module for NodeJS to access Riak.
* [[Riak in Action: Wriaki|http://vimeo.com/14275191]] - building a Riak-backed wiki.
* [[Riak with Rials|http://vimeo.com/13924929]]
* [[MapReduce Querying in Riak|http://vimeo.com/13554436]]
* [[NoSQL Performance in the Cloud; Riak on Joyent|http://blog.basho.com/2010/09/16/nosql-performance-in-the-cloud-webinar/]]
* [[MapReducing Big Data With Luwak|http://vimeo.com/20074937]]
