h2(#overview).  Setting Up Innostore

Innostore is distributed separately from Riak and will need to be compiled prior to installing.  You will need to have [[Erlang installed|RIAK:Installing Erlang]] to compile Innostore.

h2(#downloading_deb).  Downloading & Installing Innostore on Debian/Ubuntu

h3. 64-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.1/innostore_1.0.1-2_amd64.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i innostore_1.0.1-2_amd64.deb
```


h3. 32-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.1/innostore_1.0.1-2_i386.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i innostore_1.0.1-2_i386.deb
```


h2(#downloading_rpm).  Downloading & Installing Innostore on RHEL/CentOS


h3. 64-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.1/innostore-1.0.1-2.el5.x86_64.rpm
$ sudo rpm -Uvh innostore-1.0.1-2.el5.x86_64.rpm
```


h3. 32-bit


```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.1/innostore-1.0.1-2.fc12.x86_64.rpm
$ sudo rpm -Uvh innostore-1.0.1-2.fc12.x86_64.rpm
```


h2(#downloading_source).  Downloading & Installing Innostore from Source

You can download Innostore [[here|http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.1/innostore-1.0.1.tar.gz]].  A simple way to do this would be using wget:

```bash
$ wget http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/innostore-1.0.1/innostore-1.0.1.tar.gz
```


Change to the Innostore directory and compile:

<div class="note"><div class="title">Single CPU Hosts</div>You will need to run the following to allow Innostore to compile:

```bash
$ export ERL_FLAGS="-smp enable"
```
</div>


Untar and compile Innostore:

```bash
$ tar xzvf innostore-1.0.1.tar.gz
$ cd innostore-1.0.1
$ make
```


If Innostore compiled as expected you should see the following:

```bash
./rebar compile eunit verbose=1
........
........
=======================================================
  All 7 tests passed.
Cover analysis: /home/XXXXX/innostore/.eunit/index.html
```


If your compile passed tests you are now ready to install Innostore into your Riak distribution. If you are using a copy of Riak you compiled yourself you can install Innostore by issuing the following command replacing $RIAK with the location of your Riak install:

```bash
$ ./rebar install target=$RIAK/lib
```


If you installed Riak using one of our binary packages you would use the following command:

```bash
$ ./rebar install target=/usr/lib/riak
```


h2(#configuration).  Configuring Innostore

The last step in setting up Innostore is to configure the Riak node to use Innostore as its storage backend by editing your @app.config@ file located in your Riak installs @$RIAK/etc/@ directory or @/etc/riak/app.config@.  If your Riak node is running issue it the stop command.

First change the configured storage engine to use Innostore:
{section}
{column}
```bash
{storage_backend, riak_kv_dets_backend},
```
{column}
{column}becomes{column}
{column}
```bash
{storage_backend, riak_kv_innostore_backend},
```
{column}
{section}

You will also need to append the Innostore configuration to the end of your @app.config@ file. A good place for this is after the @SASL@ section (you will need to add a comma after the existing @SASL@ section:

```bash
#Binary Install
{sasl, [ ....
]}, %% < -- make sure you add a comma here!!

{innostore, [
    {data_home_dir, "/var/lib/riak/innodb"}, %% Where data files go
    {log_group_home_dir, "/var/lib/riak/innodb"}, %% Where log files go
    {buffer_pool_size, 268435456} %% 256MB in-memory buffer in bytes
]}
#Source Install
{sasl, [ ....
]}, %% < -- make sure you add a comma here!!

{innostore, [
    {data_home_dir, "$RIAK/data/innodb"}, %% Where data files go
    {log_group_home_dir, "$RIAK/data/innodb"}, %% Where log files go
    {buffer_pool_size, 268435456} %% 256MB in-memory buffer in bytes
]}
```



<div class="note"><div class="title">Single CPU Hosts</div>You will need to add the following to Riak's [[vm.args file|Configuration Files#vm.args]]:

```bash
-smp enable
```


Innostore will either fail to function or function erratically without the flag.
*This is set by default in 0.10 and later.*</div>



<div class="note"><div class="title">RHEL/CentOS</div>You will need to add the following to Riak's [[vm.args file|Configuration Files#vm.args]]:

```bash
-pa /usr/lib64/innostore/ebin
```


Riak will fail to find the modules to use innostore otherwise.  Riak will fail to startup with an @invalid_storage_backend@ error.</div>


Now that you have configured Innostore you can test your install by running to following command:

```bash
# Binary Install
$ sudo /usr/sbin/riak console

# Source Install
$ $RIAK/bin/riak console
```


If the install was successful you will see something similar to:

```bash
100220 16:36:58 InnoDB: highest supported file format is Barracuda.
100220 16:36:58 Embedded InnoDB 1.0.3.5325 started; log sequence number 45764
```


Once you have confirmed your install is successful exit the console and start your Riak node with the start command:

```bash
(riak@127.0.0.1)1> q().
```
