There is a vibrant and fast-growing community forming around Riak.

Want to get involved with Riak? Here's where you can start:

----

<div id="toc"></div>

h2. Overview

h3. Mailing List

The [[Riak Developer Mailing List|http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users_lists.basho.com]] is highly-trafficked and is a great resource for technical discussions, Riak issues and questions, and community events and announcements.

h3. Bug Tracker

Basho uses Bugzilla for its bug tracker. You can file, track and comment on all your favorite bugs [[here|https://issues.basho.com/]].

h3. Riak on IRC

The #riak IRC room on irc.freenode.net is a great place for real-time help with your Riak issues and questions.


h3. Riak Function Contrib

Riak Function Contrib is a home for community contributed MapReduce, Pre- and Post-Commit Hook, and utility functions.

* [[contrib.basho.com|http://contrib.basho.com]]
* [[Riak Function Contrib Repo on GitHub|https://github.com/basho/riak_function_contrib]]
* [[Introducing Riak Funtion Contrib (from the Basho Blog)|http://blog.basho.com/2010/12/02/introducing-riak-function-contrib/]]

h3. The Basho Blog

Members of the Basho Team blog frequently on [[The Basho Blog|http://blog.basho.com]].

h3. Basho on Twitter

You can follow the [[Basho Team List|http://twitter.com/basho/team]] on Twitter.

h3. Riak on Facebook

We have a Facebook Page. Get involved [[here|http://www.facebook.com/pages/Riak/143599935667217]]. (Note: you better get involved; we need to beat the Mongo page!)

h3. Riak on LinkedIn

There is a Riak Group on LinkedIn. Join it [[here|http://www.linkedin.com/groups?mostPopular=&gid=2913983]]. (Note: you'll need to have a LinkedIn Account)

h3. Videos

You can watch all the Riak screecasts and other videos that Basho publishes on the [[Basho Vimeo Page|http://vimeo.com/bashotech/videos]].

h3. Meetups

If you're looking for assistance getting a meetup or user group started in your area, or want to tell the community about one that you're starting, email _+mark@basho.com+_.

Here's a list of the current Meetups:

* [[San Francisco Riak Meetup|http://www.meetup.com/San-Francisco-Riak-Meetup/]]
* [[Stockholm Riak Meetup|http://www.meetup.com/Stockholm-Riak-Meetup/events/16883122/]]

h2. Community Processes

[[Code Submission and Integration]]
[[Contributing to the Riak Wiki]]
[[How to Report a Bug]]

h2. Contributors

[[Read more about our Contributors|Contributors]]
